testnets/testnets.md, before:

---
title: Joining Testnets
order: 2
---

In this section we will explain how to join testnets, where to find testnet configurations and some scripts to demonstrate make the process faster.

# Select Your Network

You can find active and in-active testnet information such as configs and endpoints on [CosmWasm/testnets](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets).

# Connect Your Validator/Node

Let's start rolling your node and start producing blocks in live testnet environment.

## Setup

First of all make sure you followed the installation steps in [build requirements section](./build-requirements.md). You should have the required binaries. If you just want to copy and execute the scripts below, make sure to set up environment variables:
You can find the other networks configurations at [CosmWasm/testnets](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets).

Below is the [demonet configuration](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets/blob/master/demo-09/config).

```sh
export CHAIN_ID=testing
export TESTNET_NAME=demo-09
export RPC=https://rpc.demo-09.cosmwasm.com:443
export FAUCET=https://faucet.demo-09.cosmwasm.com
export SEED_NODE=26c9c79dc62b5ddc753bb9fcce022fcc98b5a8cf@p2p.demo-09.cosmwasm.com:26656
```

Note:
>We have setup different executables for each testnet names after network names like: `corald/coral`, `gaiaflexd/gaiaflex`
Replace `wasmcli` with the name of the testnet specific executable in scripts below.

For running these scripts seamlessly, We recommend you to create a directory for CosmWasm tooling: 
`mkdir CosmWasm && cd CosmWasm && export CW_DIR=$(pwd)`

```shell script
git clone
cd $CW_DIR
git clone git@github.com:CosmWasm/wasmd
cd wasmd
# Check which version to use on testnets repo
git checkout v0.10.0
# generate coral executables
make build-coral # make build-gaiaflex etc...

# alias wasmd and cli to executable
alias wasmd="${CW_DIR}/wasmd/build/corald"
alias wasmcli="${CW_DIR}/wasmd/build/coral"
```

## Initialize your wallet

Initialize `wasmcli` and generate validator account:

```sh
wasmcli config chain-id $CHAIN_ID
wasmcli config trust-node true
wasmcli config node $RPC
wasmcli config output json
wasmcli config indent true
# this is important, so the cli returns after the tx is in a block,
# and subsequent queries return the proper results
wasmcli config broadcast-mode block

# check you can connect
wasmcli query supply total
wasmcli query staking validators
wasmcli query wasm list-code

# create wallet
wasmcli keys add mywallet
```

# Joining to be launched testnets

You need to have your address and informations defined in networks genesis file to join for not yet launched testnets.
Here is the script you can run to handle it automatically. It uses `coral` [network specific executables](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets/tree/master/coral#coral-wip):

```sh
cd $CW_DIR
## Fork github.com:CosmWasm/testnets to your account and clone.
## You cannot push directly to CosmWasm/testnets repo
git clone git@github.com:<your-name>/testnets
cd testnets
git checkout -b add-gen-acc-<validator-name>
cd <testnet-name>
## Testnets genesis is is config so if you pass <testnet-name> dir as home to command below
## it will add your account to genesis file
wasmd add-genesis-account --home $(pwd) $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) 100000000ushell,100000000ustake
git add . && git commit -m "add <myvalidator> account to coral genesis" && git push
# Open PR to CosmWasm/testnets:master and ping us
```

After following the steps, you can skip requesting coins

## Joining running testnets

In order to join the network as validator, you need some staking tokens. We have a faucet running for that.

Request some tokens from faucet:

```sh
JSON=$(jq -n --arg addr $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) '{"ticker":"COSM","address":$addr}')
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data "$JSON" $FAUCET/credit

JSON=$(jq -n --arg addr $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) '{"ticker":"STAKE","address":$addr}')
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data "$JSON" $FAUCET/credit
```

## Run wasmd node

```sh
export MONIKER=new_validator
# initialize wasmd configuration
wasmd init $MONIKER
# get the testnets genesis file
curl $RPC/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.wasmd/config/genesis.json
# You need to configure p2p seeds
# Either you can insert the seed addresses in $HOMEDIR/.wasmd/config/config.toml to "seeds"
# For simplicity we will pass the seed ID and domain as argument
# You can get the seed it using command:
## Start wasmd
wasmd start --p2p.seeds $SEED_NODE
```

Now you should be seeing blocks being replayed and your node is catching up with the testnet. This could take a while.

## Become an active validator(optional)

If you want to participate in active block building, you need some coins staked to your validators address. If you are interested in validator tech stack, [certus one blog](https://kb.certus.one/) is a good resource to begin with.

**Note: make sure your validator is synced before upgrading to validator

```sh
wasmcli tx staking create-validator \
  --amount=1000000ustake \
  --pubkey=$(wasmd tendermint show-validator) \
  --moniker=$MONIKER \
  --chain-id=testing \
  --commission-rate="0.10" \
  --commission-max-rate="0.20" \
  --commission-max-change-rate="0.01" \
  --min-self-delegation="1" \
  --gas="auto" \
  --gas-adjustment="1.1" \
  --from=mywallet
```

## Run the Light Client Daemon

```sh
wasmcli rest-server
# if the node is running on another machine use:
wasmcli rest-server --node tcp://<host>:<port>
```

Commit message:

Update demonet references; refactor formatting (#30)
* Update demonet references; refactor formatting

* Add p2p address

* Update testnets/testnets.md

testnets/testnets.md, after:

---
title: Joining Testnets
order: 2
---

In this section we will explain how to join testnets, where to find testnet configurations and some scripts to demonstrate make the process faster.

# Select Your Network

You can find active and in-active testnet information such as configs and endpoints on [CosmWasm/testnets](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets).

# Connect Your Validator/Node

Let's start rolling your node and start producing blocks in live testnet environment.

## Setup

First of all make sure you followed the installation steps in [build requirements section](./build-requirements.md). You should have the required binaries. If you just want to copy and execute the scripts below, make sure to set up environment variables:
You can find the other networks configurations at [CosmWasm/testnets](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets).

Below is the [demonet configuration](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets/blob/master/demo-10/config).
You can find the other networks configurations at [CosmWasm/testnets](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets).

```sh
export CHAIN_ID=testing
export TESTNET_NAME=demo-10
export RPC=https://rpc.demo-10.cosmwasm.com:443
export FAUCET=https://faucet.demo-10.cosmwasm.com
export SEED_NODE=1445f84f409745c554c03557e826edc9757b941a@p2p.demo-10.cosmwasm.com:26656
```

Note:
>We have setup different executables for each testnet names after network names like: `corald/coral`, `gaiaflexd/gaiaflex`
Replace `wasmcli` with the name of the testnet specific executable in scripts below.

For running these scripts seamlessly, We recommend you to create a directory for CosmWasm tooling: 
`mkdir CosmWasm && cd CosmWasm && export CW_DIR=$(pwd)`

```shell script
git clone
cd $CW_DIR
git clone git@github.com:CosmWasm/wasmd
cd wasmd
# Check which version to use on testnets repo
git checkout v0.10.0
# generate coral executables
make build-coral # make build-gaiaflex etc...

# alias wasmd and cli to executable
alias wasmd="${CW_DIR}/wasmd/build/corald"
alias wasmcli="${CW_DIR}/wasmd/build/coral"
```

## Initialize your wallet

Initialize `wasmcli` and generate validator account:

```sh
wasmcli config chain-id $CHAIN_ID
wasmcli config trust-node true
wasmcli config node $RPC
wasmcli config output json
wasmcli config indent true
# this is important, so the cli returns after the tx is in a block,
# and subsequent queries return the proper results
wasmcli config broadcast-mode block

# check you can connect
wasmcli query supply total
wasmcli query staking validators
wasmcli query wasm list-code

# create wallet
wasmcli keys add mywallet
```

# Joining to be launched testnets

You need to have your address and informations defined in networks genesis file to join for not yet launched testnets.
Here is the script you can run to handle it automatically. It uses `coral` [network specific executables](https://github.com/CosmWasm/testnets/tree/master/coral#coral-wip):

```sh
cd $CW_DIR
## Fork github.com:CosmWasm/testnets to your account and clone.
## You cannot push directly to CosmWasm/testnets repo
git clone git@github.com:<your-name>/testnets
cd testnets
git checkout -b add-gen-acc-<validator-name>
cd <testnet-name>
## Testnets genesis is is config so if you pass <testnet-name> dir as home to command below
## it will add your account to genesis file
wasmd add-genesis-account --home $(pwd) $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) 100000000ushell,100000000ustake
git add . && git commit -m "add <myvalidator> account to coral genesis" && git push
# Open PR to CosmWasm/testnets:master and ping us
```

After following the steps, you can skip requesting coins

## Joining running testnets

In order to join the network as validator, you need some staking tokens. We have a faucet running for that.

Request some tokens from faucet:

```sh
JSON=$(jq -n --arg addr $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) '{"ticker":"COSM","address":$addr}')
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data "$JSON" $FAUCET/credit

JSON=$(jq -n --arg addr $(wasmcli keys show -a mywallet) '{"ticker":"STAKE","address":$addr}')
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data "$JSON" $FAUCET/credit
```

## Run wasmd node

```sh
export MONIKER=new_validator
# initialize wasmd configuration
wasmd init $MONIKER
# get the testnets genesis file
curl $RPC/genesis | jq .result.genesis > ~/.wasmd/config/genesis.json
# You need to configure p2p seeds
# Either you can insert the seed addresses in $HOMEDIR/.wasmd/config/config.toml to "seeds"
# For simplicity we will pass the seed ID and domain as argument
# You can get the seed it using command:
## Start wasmd
wasmd start --p2p.seeds $SEED_NODE
```

Now you should be seeing blocks being replayed and your node is catching up with the testnet. This could take a while.

## Become an active validator(optional)

If you want to participate in active block building, you need some coins staked to your validators address. If you are interested in validator tech stack, [certus one blog](https://kb.certus.one/) is a good resource to begin with.

**Note**: make sure your validator is synced before upgrading to validator

```sh
wasmcli tx staking create-validator \
  --amount=1000000ustake \
  --pubkey=$(wasmd tendermint show-validator) \
  --moniker=$MONIKER \
  --chain-id=testing \
  --commission-rate="0.10" \
  --commission-max-rate="0.20" \
  --commission-max-change-rate="0.01" \
  --min-self-delegation="1" \
  --gas="auto" \
  --gas-adjustment="1.1" \
  --from=mywallet
```

## Run the Light Client Daemon

```sh
wasmcli rest-server
# if the node is running on another machine use:
wasmcli rest-server --node tcp://<host>:<port>
```
